The site can be viewed live at https://audreyzhangg.github.io/albatrosses/albatross-proto/. If running it locally is preferred, clone or download the repo, open the project folder, and just open the albatross-proto/index.html file in browser (or use the live server extension of VS code). Everything is built with plain HTML, CSS, and JavaScript plus a google font and a few svg/png assets, so there’s nothing to install and no build step required. We also used D3.js for all the svg and data driven visuals (like the anatomy hotspots, species visualizations, threats matrix, etc.) and Leaflet.js and its stylesheet for interactive elements such as markers of the interactive distance map and pop up elements of the anatomy and species pages. 

Finally, here’s an overview of the data that we utilized to create our visualizations and overall webpage: 
- data/species_colonies.json: This data is used to generate the maps on the species side panels. Lat stands for latitude and Lon stands for longitude. Ntracks stands for number of tracks and describes the number of continuous flight paths tracked. Nbirds stands for the number of birds they collected data about. Npoints describes the number of data points collected and years lists all years that data was collected at that site. 
- Albatross_fun_facts.csv: Contains fun facts for some of the species and the source for the fun fact
- cleanedthreats.csv: Provides data on the threats. Species lists the species of albatross affected, threat lists the nature of the threat, details provides further information on the threat (for example specific species that the albatross is affected by), and impact describes how much of an impact this threat has on the population, either low, medium, or high. 
- speciesinfo.csv: Provides data for the species array visualization and side bar. RL Category describes the red list conservation status, with the abbreviations representing Extinct (EX), Critically Endangered (CR), Endangered (EN), Vulnerable (VU), Near Threatened (NT), or Least Concern (LC). RL EOO stands for red list extent of occurrence.
- BiP_WA_CROZET2019_M11675_NW03_G.csv: Provides data for the dynamic soaring visualization. Lat and Long stand for latitude and longitude respectively, alt refers to altitude, accuracyH stands for horizontal accuracy of the gps position while accuracyV stands for the vertical accuracy of the gps position, s2north describes horizontal speed toward the north / s2east refers to horizontal speed toward the east / s2down means vertical speed downward.
